.TH EODINGA 1 "0.1.733" "eodinga 0.1.733" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
eodinga \- local-first instant file search for Windows and Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eodinga
[-h] [--log-level LOG_LEVEL] [--config CONFIG] [--db DB] {index,watch,search,stats,gui,doctor,version} ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
eodinga indexes local filenames, paths, and supported document text, keeps the index fresh with filesystem notifications, and exposes the same engine through CLI, GUI, and launcher surfaces.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--log-level LOG_LEVEL\fR
Set the runtime log verbosity for this invocation.
.TP
\fB--config CONFIG\fR
Use an explicit config file instead of the platform default path.
.TP
\fB--db DB\fR
Use an explicit SQLite index path instead of the configured default.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBindex\fR
Build or rebuild the on-disk index for one or more configured roots.
[-h] [--root ROOT] [--rebuild]
.TP
\fBwatch\fR
Start the filesystem watch loop that feeds live updates into the index.
[-h]
.TP
\fBsearch\fR
Run a DSL query against the current index and print matches.
[-h] [--json] [--limit LIMIT] [--root ROOT] query
.TP
\fBstats\fR
Print index counts plus runtime counters and histograms.
[-h] [--json]
.TP
\fBgui\fR
Launch the Qt application or run the offscreen GUI smoke path.
[-h] [--test-mode]
.TP
\fBdoctor\fR
Report environment, dependency, and path diagnostics as JSON.
[-h]
.TP
\fBversion\fR
Print the current eodinga version and exit.
[-h]
.SH COMMAND DETAILS
.SS index
.B Usage
[-h] [--root ROOT] [--rebuild]
.B Options
.TP
\fB--root ROOT\fR
Add one root for this run; repeat the flag to override configured roots.
.TP
\fB--rebuild\fR
Force a staged rebuild instead of reusing the existing index snapshot.
.SS watch
.B Usage
[-h]
.SS search
.B Usage
[-h] [--json] [--limit LIMIT] [--root ROOT] query
.B Options
.TP
\fBquery\fR
Query string in the shared DSL used by the CLI, GUI, and launcher.
.TP
\fB--json\fR
Emit structured JSON instead of the default plain-text payload.
.TP
\fB--limit LIMIT\fR
Cap the number of returned hits after ranking.
.TP
\fB--root ROOT\fR
Restrict matches to one indexed root path.
.SS stats
.B Usage
[-h] [--json]
.B Options
.TP
\fB--json\fR
Emit the full structured stats snapshot as JSON.
.SS gui
.B Usage
[-h] [--test-mode]
.B Options
.TP
\fB--test-mode\fR
Launch the GUI in test mode and exit after processing pending events.
.SS doctor
.B Usage
[-h]
.SS version
.B Usage
[-h]
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBeodinga index --root ~/projects --root ~/docs\fR
Build or refresh the index for multiple roots.
.TP
\fBeodinga search 'date:this-week ext:md roadmap' --limit 20\fR
Run a CLI search using the shared query DSL.
.TP
\fBeodinga search 'regex:/todo|fixme/i path:src' --json\fR
Run a regex-focused search and emit structured JSON results.
.TP
\fBQT_QPA_PLATFORM=offscreen eodinga gui --test-mode\fR
Run the packaged GUI smoke path without requiring a visible desktop session.
.TP
\fBeodinga stats --json\fR
Print the active index snapshot and in-memory counters as JSON.
.TP
\fBeodinga doctor\fR
Check dependencies, writable paths, roots, and hotkey support.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
QT_QPA_PLATFORM=offscreen: force the Qt GUI smoke path for headless checks.
EODINGA_LOG_PATH: override the rotating file-log destination.
EODINGA_CRASH_DIR: override where crash-<ts>.log artifacts are written.
EODINGA_RUN_PERF=1: enable the opt-in perf suite under tests/perf/.
.SH FILES
Linux config: ~/.config/eodinga/config.toml
Linux database: ~/.local/share/eodinga/index.db
Windows config: %APPDATA%\\eodinga\\config.toml
Windows database: %LOCALAPPDATA%\\eodinga\\index.db
.SH SEE ALSO
README.md, docs/DSL.md, docs/ACCEPTANCE.md, docs/RELEASE.md
