.TH "EODINGA" "1" "2026-04-23" "eodinga eodinga manual"
.SH NAME
eodinga \- everything-class instant file search for Windows and Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eodinga
[\fIglobal options\fR] \fIcommand\fR [\fIcommand options\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBeodinga\fR indexes local filesystem metadata and optional parsed document content, then exposes the same lexical search engine through the CLI, GUI, and launcher surfaces. The runtime is local-only; indexed roots are treated as read-only inputs.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-level LOG_LEVEL\fR

.TP
\fB\-\-config CONFIG\fR

.TP
\fB\-\-db DB\fR

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBindex\fR
build or rebuild the local search index. Usage: eodinga index [\-h] [\-\-root ROOT] [\-\-rebuild]
.TP
\fBwatch\fR
report the configured watch surface for live index updates. Usage: eodinga watch [\-h]
.TP
\fBsearch\fR
run a lexical query against the local index. Usage: eodinga search [\-h] [\-\-json] [\-\-limit LIMIT] [\-\-root ROOT] query
.TP
\fBstats\fR
print index and in\-process observability counters. Usage: eodinga stats [\-h] [\-\-json]
.TP
\fBgui\fR
launch the Qt desktop UI and hotkey surface. Usage: eodinga gui [\-h] [\-\-test\-mode]
.TP
\fBdoctor\fR
run local environment and index diagnostics. Usage: eodinga doctor [\-h]
.TP
\fBversion\fR
print the current eodinga version. Usage: eodinga version [\-h]
.SH "INDEX COMMAND"
.PP
build or rebuild the local search index
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-root ROOT\fR

.TP
\fB\-\-rebuild\fR

.SH "WATCH COMMAND"
.PP
report the configured watch surface for live index updates
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.SH "SEARCH COMMAND"
.PP
run a lexical query against the local index
.SS POSITIONAL ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fBquery\fR

.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-json\fR

.TP
\fB\-\-limit LIMIT\fR

.TP
\fB\-\-root ROOT\fR

.SH "STATS COMMAND"
.PP
print index and in\-process observability counters
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-json\fR

.SH "GUI COMMAND"
.PP
launch the Qt desktop UI and hotkey surface
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-test\-mode\fR

.SH "DOCTOR COMMAND"
.PP
run local environment and index diagnostics
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.SH "VERSION COMMAND"
.PP
print the current eodinga version
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
eodinga index \-\-root ~/projects \-\-root ~/docs
eodinga search 'date:this\-week ext:md roadmap' \-\-limit 20
eodinga search 'regex:/todo|fixme/i path:src' \-\-json
eodinga stats \-\-json
eodinga doctor
.fi
.SH FILES
Linux config: ~/.config/eodinga/config.toml
.br
Linux index: ~/.local/share/eodinga/index.db
.br
Windows config: %APPDATA%\\eodinga\\config.toml
.br
Windows index: %LOCALAPPDATA%\\eodinga\\index.db
.SH SEE ALSO
README.md, docs/DSL.md, docs/ACCEPTANCE.md, docs/RELEASE.md
